# OpenAlex Citation and Reference Gathering

## Python Library Dependencies
- itertools
- [pyalex](https://github.com/J535D165/pyalex)
- [crossrefapi](https://github.com/fabiobatalha/crossrefapi)
- pandas

## Operation

These scripts use the [OpenAlex API](https://docs.openalex.org/) to retrieve article data. As written, it retrieves data from a discrete list of Marketing journals; this list can be found in the dictionaries.py file.

The script will retrieve articles within a specific timeframe, which can also be adjusted by adjusting the "timeframe" dictionary. Comment out any year ranges that are not needed.

The first loop retrieves lists of all articles published in each journal during the given timeframe, storing the data in a CSV file for each journal.

The second loop reads each CSV file generated by the first loop, then makes new API calls to collect data on other articles that have cited each article in the CSV file.

The third loop reads CSV files containing lists of articles published in each journal, then retrieves data on each document referenced by those articles.

Throughout all the loops, a de-duplication process identifies OpenAlex article objects that are likely duplicates and collapses them into a single data entry.

This script also uses the CrossRef API. CrossRef's data on an article's total number of references is more accurate and reliable than OpenAlex's complementary metadata, so CrossRef was queried for article reference counts instead of OpenAlex. This is because the reference count for an article in CrossRef comes from the publisher, whereas the reference count for an article in OpenAlex is summed from the number of references linked within OpenAlex's own database. This number excludes any entities that OpenAlex does not itself include, so the number is inaccurately low for OpenAlex in most cases.
## Future Work

- Add better documentation with inline commenting
- Streamline the code by condensing duplicated operations into functions
- Further minimize the number of total API calls required to retrieve the desired datasets
